# Predicting the GPA of Higher Education Students Using Machine Learning - Project_Spring_2025
<p>Grade Point Average (GPA) is a way of measuring the academic performance of students and how the institution is able to successfully affect a student’s success. Predicting GPA using machine learning techniques gives us a window to see which methods work and which ones should be changed to help identify students who are close to falling behind, enhance educational planning, and help students understand what the right routine is to succeed. This study will investigate the application of machine learning models to predict students’ GPA based on a diverse set of academic, behavioral, and socio-demographic features.
<p></p>AutoViz was used for automated exploratory data analysis, enabling efficient visualization of feature distributions, correlations, and potential data quality issues. AutoViz provided that informs the feature selection and processing decisions. That highlights key variables such as previous academic performance, attendance, study hours, and self-reported motivation level. 
<p></p>The machine learning workflow was built using PyCaret, which is a low-code machine learning library that streamlines data processing, model comparison, and performance evaluations. There were a variety of regression models that were evaluated, such as Linear Regression, Decision Tree Regressor, Random Forest Regressor, and Support Vector Machine (SVM). The automated pipeline that PyCaret has allowed for consistent experimentation and fair comparison using standard evaluation metrics such as Accuracy, Recall, Precision, and F1 were used. 
<p></p>This study highlights the effectiveness of combining AutoViz and PyCaret to create an efficient, transparent, and reuse machine learning workflow. The finding shows that even without complex algorithms, well-tuned classical models can produce strong results for GPA prediction. This is a good way of using real-world data and gives us a perspective of what factors help predict a student’s GPA.
<p>https://archive.ics.uci.edu/dataset/856/higher+education+students+performance+evaluation
